# Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Nate Reindl, and I'm a hacker.

During the day, I help run production infrastructure for the Turner
Broadcasting System, including the machines that sit behind
[CNN.com](http://www.cnn.com/) and
[CartoonNetwork.com](http://www.cartoonnetwork.com/) to name a couple.

At night, I build things and read books.

# What hardware do you use?

Turner gave me a 13-inch retina MacBook Pro with all the bells and
whistles... except with a 256GB SSD, but that's fine. It's a pretty
solid piece of hardware, and it usually stays mated to a 27-inch Dell
monitor when I'm at home.

For personal use, I have a Lenovo ThinkPad X230 that's maxed out as far
as I care to take it. It's a beast. In addition to the 256GB Samsung 840
Pro I have in it, there's a 1TB hard drive affixed to the lid using
little velcro squares. It has 16GB worth of RAM. It will run easily for
14 hours off battery power.

In addition to the laptops, I have a cluster of Raspberry Pi
single-board computers (48 of them, in stacks of six) that I use for
some distributed systems research projects. They each have 2TB disks
dangling off of them over USB, and the OS they run tends to change with
the phases of the moon.

My mobile telephone is a Nexus 4 running the latest available build of
Android short of Android L. It makes phone calls and stores my contacts,
so I'm happy.

The remainder of what I do happens with scrawling things on paper. I buy
quad-ruled composition notebooks by the case, and I actually have come
to prefer [Zebra's F-301 retractable ball-point
pen](http://www.zebrapen.com/product/f-301-ball-point-retractable-2/).

# And what software?

I usually install Russ Cox's [Plan 9 from User
Space](http://swtch.com/plan9port/) wherever I happen to be since my
primary editing environment is [Acme](http://research.swtch.com/acme
"Russ Cox's weblog post on Acme") these days. I augment Acme's
functionality with a collection of myriad scripts that do things like
indent and outdent paragraphs as well as quote selections and format
them for line widths and justification, not to mention properly
indenting and formatting code.

I read my mail using [mutt](http://www.mutt.org), which is indexed using
[notmuch](http://notmuchmail.org). I've been considering adding
[notmuchfs](https://github.com/tsto/notmuchfs) to the mix since I don't
use an OS anymore that doesn't support FUSE.

I keep my digital journal notes and things in a git repository that is
synchronized with Bitbucket. The text itself is written either using
Markdown or LaTeX, depending on my mood or the contents of the notes.
I've been considering moving to reStructured Text lately because of
the [addition of math
support](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html#math).

The MBP runs the latest stable OS X.

The ThinkPad runs the latest Ubuntu LTS, and I have most of it automated
with a tool from Google called
[slack](https://code.google.com/p/slack/).

To stay social with folks outside of email or phone calls, I actually do
lean pretty heavily on things like [irssi](http://irssi.org),
[App::Bondage](https://metacpan.org/pod/App::Bondage) and
[bitlbee](http://www.bitlbee.org/).

For playing music, I actually use [ncmpcpp](http://ncmpcpp.rybczak.net),
which is an ncurses-based music player that uses the [Music Player
Daemon](http://www.musicpd.org) on the backend. 

For math exploration, I usually employ a number of tools. First and
foremost is [Sage](http://sagemath.org), which is an open source
mathematics software system that does everything from numerical
computation to plotting to algebra all the way up to symbolic
manipulation. I also employ [Julia](http://julialang.org) for some
heavier spelunking into numerics, and [R](http://www.r-project.org) gets
a fair bit of mileage when I'm feeling in a particularly
statistics-oriented mood. In a previous life, I wrote lots and lots of
Fortran.

At work, I interact mostly with Chef and Linux kernel internals.

# What would be your dream setup?

Honestly, if I could have a user interface like Acme's but with
additions to handle images and floating windows in a zooming sort of
environment, that would actually be amazingly ideal. Something like
[Light Table](http://www.lighttable.com) actually comes pretty close,
but it misses a lot of things that would make me apt to jump from Acme.
